 All righty guys, so in this video, I'm going to be walking you through how to use the modeling tool. Okay, so this is a modeling tool that helps you model your business by using a discounted future cash flow analysis that is dependent on some granular inputs. Okay, so let's first walk through how this works, who this is for, this is for anyone starting a business, an internet business, a service business. It works if you already have a business and you want to model your cash flows, if you want to justify things to investors or employees, it works very, very nicely. And it is unlike other models in that it maps some of the most granular inputs like the sales and marketing stuff to the discounted future cash flow. So there's no BS. There's no, well, how did you get here? What leaps of faith are you using to value? So let's just walk through an example. Let's do a test model here. Okay. And, um, we're not going to use the belonging to case study because you guys don't have case studies yet. So you can leave that blank. Um, you can use notes. So if you save the model and you want to share it to other team members, you can, um, include notes. Okay. Or different States. Now we first want to describe the starting state. Okay. So this is cash that you're starting with. So let's pretend we're starting with a $10,000. Okay. And if we already had an existing business with an, with a set of customers, then we would put that number, this number would be non-zero. Okay. But let's pretend we're just starting from scratch. Now let's talk about the price of the offer. So this is the price of the offer. I like to use like a yearly price, but you can use a monthly price and you're going to have to define some of these, you're gonna have to define some of these inputs to map to the payment terms and the offer, okay? So let's pretend that we're gonna be selling something for $6,000 a year, okay? This realization rate I keep it we set it at 93 This is the rate at which the revenue turns into cash so standards like 93 to 99 okay This cost to fulfill is the this is what it costs you to deliver that solution Okay So if you have a really high gross margin like in a SaaS business or an online, uh, online service business, that cost of a fill can be like 10% or 5%. If you have a service based business, then that cost of a fill can be like 30%. Okay. So let's pretend we're in like a SaaS business. Now, this number is really important, the time to collect. Okay. So this number is different from the time to the contract length. Okay. So the contract length can be 365 days, but the time to collect, if it's monthly, if you're collecting it, you know, every month, so it's a even distribution over the, over the time period, then that would be 365. But if you're selling upfront deals or you're getting the contract in like two or three monthly payments, then that number can be, if it's in two payments, that number will be 30 days. If it's in three payments, that number will be 60 days. So this number is different from the contract length. Okay, so let's pretend it's $6,000 a year. We're going to collect it in three equal payments. So on day one, we're collecting. On day 30, we're collecting. And on day 60, we're collecting. Okay. Okay, this refund period is the period if someone were to refund. So this is the refund rate. So let's say you have a 2% refund rate. If someone were to refund, they would do so in 60 days. Okay, so that is important. Now, let's talk about the churn rate. So if you're selling a one-time offer, this churn rate will be 100% and all of the other renewal stuff goes away. If you're renewing customers, okay, we'll call it 50% of these customers here will renew after the contract length. Well, for what price are they getting the renewal, okay? So if you are selling the same thing, we put $6,000 here. This is the time to collect, okay? So similar to this over here, the time to collect is the time it takes in days to collect the payment, okay? and let's set that equal to 365 because they might do monthly payments okay this is the cost of fulfill okay so it similar to this if it the same product okay and then this is the cost to sell the renewal so this is 10 let say it 10 You might have to pay a salesperson You might have to pay a customer success person to get that renewal and check in with, uh, check in with them. Okay. Now the cost of a fill, I like baking in the support into the cost of fulfill. Okay. So if you have support people make, I like baking that into the cost to fulfill, not just the gross contribution. I like baking that all in. Then the renewal rate of the renewal. So out of the people who renew the first time, so 50%, what's the percentage of people who renew after the first renewal? So do they renew again? So we can have this perpetual renewal rate, which is 50%. Or if you notice that people stay on for maybe 100% of them leave, or sorry, 0% of them stay on, so they only stay on for two cycles, then that number will be zero. If 20% continue, then that number will be 20, okay? So what we'll do here is we'll get into the sales and marketing. So if you are selling something like over the phone, typically you'd put the commission here. This is 15% of the price, okay this is 15% of the price which is this price up here that you pay to close the sale and this is the sales cycle length so the sales cycle length is really dependent the cash flow especially getting to profitability from scratch depends on that sales cycle length and we'll show you that in the outputs okay so with this maybe we have on average a 14 day sales cycle length Okay. Now let's get into marketing. So how the heck are we going to be generating leads? So we could use outbound prospecting. Okay. And we could have an outbound prospecting team. Okay. That we pay them a base salary. They are prospecting. They're hitting X number of contacts per month. Now this is the number of SDRs. So let's say we were just bringing on two SDRs and this is the contact lead rate so out of 2,000 customers if the contact or the outbound conversion rates 2 well then that will be what 40 40 leads a month okay so that is this number is really really important If you don understand how to do outbound prospecting then you should learn how to do outbound prospecting We have a program on that and that number overall across everybody should be about 2%. Okay. Now this is the time to generate an outbound lead. So this is the time between the first message and when they become a lead. That's really, really important. Okay. Cause if this number is like, like 40 days, Well, it's going to take you a long time to get those leads. And then this number is really important. This is the lead to account or account to lead conversion rate. So out of all of the contacts here or out of all of the leads here, how many of them turned into customers? And this number is really important. Now, this is not the close rate of the demo. This is the rate at which a lead turns into a demo and then closes. Okay. So even if your close rate is like 20%, okay, or 25%, well, not all of your leads are turning into qualified pitches. Maybe only one third of them turn into qualified pitches. And that's where this eight comes from. Okay. So let's say your close rate is 25% and only one third of the leads turn into qualified appointments. Well, 25 over three is about eight. Okay. So that is where this number comes from. Okay. so now let's pretend we also have an in we're doing an inbound approach as well so we're spending money on ads and if you've ever bought ads you'd know that the cost per thousand impression is really important the click-through rate is really important or the and this will determine the cost per click so you can multiply this number by this number and you'd get cost per click okay and so you'd go over to your advertising platform and you just let's say we're spending we're going to spend $10,000 a month. Okay. And this is monthly. And then we have cost per thousand impressions. So let's say we're marketing in the U S to a certain age. And with a test, we determined that the cost per thousand impressions is 55. Okay. And the click-through rate is, we'll call it 1%, which is pretty standard. And then the funnel conversion rate. So how, what is the rate at which a click, okay, turns into a lead. Now this is really, really, really important. If your funnel is done well, then that lead rate will be around 2%.

 This is the time it takes to generate a lead. So when you throw ads out there, it's typically one to two days because you can generate leads pretty instantaneously or you can do it instantaneously. And then this is the rate at which a lead turns into a customer, similar to this rate here. So if a lead comes in, we have to qualify that lead and then we have to close that lead. And this lead rate and this conversion rate is all relative to this offer here. Okay. So this is offer specific modeling, which is really, really important because a business is just a bunch of offers stacked together. Let's say you have multiple offers. Well, this is going to be just for your one offer. I'm going to specify that. Offer one. You may be able to stack. If you have multiple offers, you can stack these models. Now, we also incorporated viral effects. So what are viral effects? Well, let's say you bring our customer and that customer on average, they are inviting two people. Okay. And that viral conversion rate is, let's say out of the invites, 10% of those people convert for that offer. The viral time is the time between the invitation and the close. And this, this number is very significant. Okay. Because if that is huge, then the viral effects are kind of weak. If that number is really small, which means as soon as somebody invites, they become a customer. Well, that number, then the viral effects are very, very strong. Okay. And this viral start is when in time do the viral effects kick in? Do they kick in right away? Do they kick in on day 100? Do they kick in on day 150? Okay. So we'll start the viral effects on day 30. Okay. And this is the cost to bring on a viral customer. So we might need to spend some money on incentivizing customers to bring on new customers. So we have the cost to sell viral, and this might be the commission. Let's say if your customers are generating leads, you still have to pay a salesperson or you still have to pay something or someone to convert that sale. And then the cost of market you may have to pay the person who referring a fee And that could be 5 or 10 of the price which is relative to this offer up here Now let talk about the administration stuff The transaction fee is the processing fee. So on Stripe, it's like 2.9%. The fixed cost per month, this is just like rent and some of the fixed costs, some of the fixed salaries. okay and again i don't like putting support people in in this here i like putting them in the cost the cost to fulfill okay so it's kind of like fulfilling the transformation for the customer right like you're going to need some support people so this is like your rent just your fixed salaries maybe you have some engineers okay maybe you need to spend to get something going so this is like the upfront investment okay maybe you need to spend 50k to build the product so that you can charge $6,000. Maybe you're taking on debt to run the business as well. So maybe you take on 50 K in debt and the interest rate is 5%. Okay. And then this is the amount of, this is the amount per 100 customers, uh, or the fixed cost increase per 100 customers. So let's say for every 100 customers, you're going to need a, you need to spend $500, okay, a month, okay, this is per month, so this adds to this number here, okay, so this can mean you might need another desk for a customer success person, maybe need a, another coffee machine, who knows, okay, so you can just approximate that. But, or you can just keep it zero if you're not, if you're unsure. Okay. Now let's talk about the valuations. So this tax rate is dependent on where you are. It's really important to, when you're valuing a company, it's, it's the free cashflow that spits out and that's after taxes. Okay. And appreciation and interest and all of that stuff. Okay. So we need a tax rate, the lower the tax rate, the higher the valuation is going to be. Okay, we need an inflation rates because we're going to be using a present value Calculation and We need a discount rate. So in order to calculate the present value of present value of stuff We need a discount rate and we need an inflation rate and then we gonna set the time period Okay so typically when you valuing stuff You gonna use like a year projection Okay so five years about 2 days I believe Let do five times five Oops. Five years, we're going to, oh, this is the max time period. Sorry. So this is like the domain of the graphs. So we're going to use 2,500 days, but we're going to use five years here. This is the projection period. Okay. And so this is the five, five year mark. And then in a discounted future cashflow analysis, you're going to have to use a perpetual growth. Okay. So in, let's jump to the whiteboard real quick when you're doing a discounted future cashflow. Okay. And this is time and this is cashflow. okay and you're calculating the value of the business well let's say at five years okay five years you're going to chop it here and what the what the discounted future cash flow is doing is just calculating the area under this curve and that will be a amount of cash or maybe that curve looks like this right it starts off negative and then it goes positive and what the discounted future cash flow is doing or the DCF modeling is doing is it's calculating this area under this curve and then at the five-year mark it's chopping it and saying okay it's not going to grow forever and then we're going to be assigning a perpetual growth rate so it might not look like this we're going to have after five years we don't really know what's going to go on in five years but we can assume a perpetual growth rate of two percent and that's where this number here is coming from Now, if you wanted to set the discount of future cash flow, if you wanted to calculate the area under the curve up to maybe three years, then you would change this number to three years instead of five years. So you can change when you're calculating the terminal value. And so basically we're calculating enterprise value, and that is from T1 to T2. So T1 could be zero. T2 could be three years. and this is the cash flow at time T DT and then we taking the present value of the whole thing okay And then we adding the terminal value okay And the terminal value, oh, what the heck's going on here? Give me my mouse. The terminal value term is this cash flow at t2, okay? So we're chopping it here and we're determining the cash flow here and then we're going to add that perpetual growth rate and we're taking the present value of that as well. Okay. And that will give us our enterprise value and then we're going to add on the cash and other assets and there you go. Okay. Now we can compare this to the EBITDA multiple. We can compare this to the revenue multiple. These are kind of like the back of the envelope calculations. All right. and that is pretty much how it works so let's submit this model we'll let it load okay and you're going to be able to see that we're going to it's going to give us a customers versus time graph which is pretty awesome it'll spit out this these are kind of like key metrics here the time to profitability is two months so that is the intercept where this cash the free cash flow crosses zero. Okay. So the time to profitability, which is really important, especially as a bootstrap entrepreneur, um, it'll give you the discounted future cashflow, uh, market cap. So it calculates the area under this curve in the time period. Okay. And, uh, calculates the present value. It'll give you the cash consumption. So this is how much cash you need, uh, in addition to not run out of money, you're gonna need that much just to keep going, okay? So if we look at the cash curve, you're gonna see that it dips below zero, okay? And so that's where that cash consumption comes in. Now, this was, if we had 200,000 in the bank, then that would be zero and you wouldn't need extra cash, okay? Now, this profit per customer per month is a really important metric because it allows us to compare offers. So you if you have like a high ticket offer that with a really long sales cycle or a lower ticket offer with a really short sales cycle And short collection rate then that number will pop up here Okay And I like comparing the profit per customer per month because the higher the profit profit per customer per month The easier it is to get profitable and the shorter You're gonna do so in a shorter

 of time. Okay. So you can see here, we have outbound customers versus time. We have inbound customers versus time. We have viral customers versus time. We have renewal customers versus time. Okay. And then down here, we have some of the inputs and outputs. Okay. So we have the cash, we have the realization rate, all of these inputs that we inputted here. And then we have these really key outputs, right? So the cost to sell, okay? We have the renewal, we have the expected value of the renewal price, and that's just calculated by the, that's calculated by the amount, the transaction fees, and the delinquent rate, which is the realization rate, okay? We have the cost to sell a renewal. We have the cost to fulfill a renewal. We have the profit per customer per day of a renewal. Then we have some of the, and we have the profit per customer per month of a renewal. Then we have some of the granular inputs and outputs. So remember that we did outbound prospecting. We have an outbound prospecting team, and we're doing inbound advertising, and it's spitting out the cost per lead. So we can compare the cost per lead and we can compare the amount of leads per month with these methods. And because we have the conversion rate, we can compare the amount of CDOT, which is the amount of new customers per month from inbound efforts. Now, again, what we're doing is we're blending the two because in order to get an actual cost per acquisition, well, we know how much it costs on outbound, we know how much it costs on inbound, but we have to do a weighted average, so we need to blend them, okay? And this gives us the overall cost per acquisition, overall number of new customers a month, and overall cost to market, overall contribution after marketing, okay? Overall profit per customer per month, okay? And the overall amount of new customers per month, okay? Okay, and then this is just the blended for the paid stuff. And then we have the viral stuff. Okay, so the K value is .2. If this K value is over one, the thing's gonna really jump up. Okay, that's how you get these viral effects. The cost to sell the cost to market okay The profit per customer per month of a viral customer Okay so you can see that pretty valuable Then we have the fixed cost per month that we set the fixed cost per increase per day okay based on the customers and because every 100 customers I think it was like 500 And then we have the cost of debt. So we're carrying debt and then this is the cost of debt monthly. Okay. And then the valuations, we're using a five-year period. We're using the projection, the free cash flow at the projection period. This is the integral, so this is the area under the curve at the projection period. This is the terminal value. This is the present value of the area under the curve. Okay. At the projection period, this is the enterprise value. This is the market cap. Okay. This is the number of shares that we defined. This is the share price. This is the EBITDA method. So we basically the free cashflow because we're not using, we didn't incorporate the amortization or depreciation. We're just, it's basically EBIT multiple. Okay. And then we have the price per earnings multiple and we have the revenue multiple. Okay. And then we have the cost needed to get the thing off the ground, which is the amount of cash that you're lacking. Okay. We have the time to profitability, which is 39 days or we call it two months. This is the rounded. Okay. And then we have the positive total cash is after 162 days and the, and that we translate that into months and the cash below, uh, zero day, it is day zero. Okay so additional debt So we in we need this much cash we need which is essentially the consumption the C consumption that the amount that we lacking Okay So yeah this is we can play with this model So we can play with let play with the ticket price Let call it instead of let call it a year Okay Let see what happens Okay, it takes a second to load. However, it will spit out new values. It'll spit out a new, you can see here that it only takes one month to get profitable, and it ups the cash flow significantly. Let's play with the churn rate. Let's say, let's give a 80% churn rate instead of a 50% churn rate. And what this is used for, it's used to really, like we understand why, or some of these metrics that they're, like we understand they're important. But this really gives us a picture of how important they are, right? How much does the churn rate really affect the value of the thing that we're building, right? this is an important um important concept right so it can really affect the value um how does price affect the value right let's say we're selling something for three thousand dollars instead of eight thousand dollars is the thing going to work is it ever going to work and this is we developed this tool because we have a lot of customers who were they had offers but the unit economics really didn't work. Right. So, so let's say it's at $3,000 offer. Well, that's not really going to work. Right. It's, it's just not likely to really become a meaningful business. Okay. Um, let's bring this back up to $6,000. Okay. And let's play with the time to collect. Okay, so we're collecting in 60 days, but sometimes we collect over, let's say, like monthly. We have a monthly collection. We're doing monthly payments. Well, let's see how this intercept is affected. Well, all of a sudden, it's going to take us about six months to get profitable, or we're going to get free cash flow in six months or a positive free cash flow in six months. And if we take a look at the cash, well, we're going to work underwater for some time, right? And we're going to need some more cash just to stay afloat. Okay? So that's how the time to collect, like the time it takes to collect the payment can really affect the business All right Let say that the lead rate the outbound prospecting lead rate is goes down to 0 which means like maybe you got caught up in spam or uh the prospectors are not doing personalized messages and it's just not working. Well, you can see here that the business breaks, right? So at a 0.5% conversion rate, the business breaks at a 2% conversion rate, the business works. Okay. And I just like looking at the, uh, the cashflow graph here. All right. And let's say that the cost per thousand impressions is a hundred. Okay. So the price you're advertising, all of a sudden the price of the ads just shoot up, well, that's not good. You will see that it'll affect the cash flow. Okay. It'll affect the cash flow significantly if the price to advertise shoots up. And then on the other end of the spectrum, let's say the cost to advertise it or the cost per thousand eyeballs is really low. So you're marketing into a country or a niche where there's not a lot of competitors, that cost per thousand person can be pretty low. Well, that is pretty cool. That really helps that, that makes a pretty darn big difference. Okay. And yeah, so you guys can play with some of these inputs. It, let's say we have an, on average, a customer invites 20 people. Okay. Well, let's see how the viral effects kick in. Okay. You can see that if the viral effect, it gets, it just blows up, right? So if the, on average, if the customer is inviting 20 people and the conversion rate is 10%, the K value is definitely over one. The K value is two, right? So for each customer, a customer will bring on two customers. customers. Each customer brings on two customers, so it grows exponentially. Okay? So you guys can play with that K value. That's kind of neat. And yeah, so another thing is you can model different states. I'm going to bring this K value back to earth. Okay? You can model different states. So let's say you already have customers.

 you're not starting from scratch, but you're starting from maybe like 50 customers, then we're going to be changing this value here. Okay. And you can model. So from zero to 50, you can model because maybe your fixed costs are different from zero to 50. You can just create a separate model and then you can compare. Okay. So if we're starting from 50 customers, you'll see here that we're starting from 50 customers and we'll see that the cash flow is a little bit different. Okay. We're starting from 50 customers. We already have something going. So there's no upfront costs, which is, I think it's in the product here. Where are the upfront costs? Oh, the upfront costs. We're going to set that equal to zero. So let's say that we wanted to create a model at time starting at one year or where you're at. You're already a couple of years into it or a year into it. You already have 50 customers. Well your cash flow is going to look something like this Okay you already profitable Cash flow looks something like this Now let say that we wanted to compare models So we're going to click make a copy of this model. And let's say we wanted to change something and then compare the states. okay so this one has a $6,000 offer okay this one can will compare it $3,000 offer okay and we're gonna compare the models and we're gonna see what the difference is okay so let's click compare models okay we're gonna compare the test model one and the test model one copy and we're gonna be doing this comparison and we able to see we can see the cash flow versus time of a and B okay we can you can see that the customers and versus time don really change at all They're the same, right? Because we're only changing the ticket price. But we can also see the value, okay? The value of the company. And we can see that there's like a 140% difference in the value of the company, okay? So you guys can use this tool to determine different states. Okay. You can compare the states from like time is equal to one year. Time is equal to two years. Okay. And yeah, it's pretty darn useful tool. And then if you want to make it public, what you'll do is you can make this public, make this model public. Okay. and it'll generate a link and you can share this link with folks, okay? Let me just show you how that works. Let it load there we go So you can share this link with your friends You can share it with investors And then if you click on your models, if you go to all, then you'll have your list of models there. You can save them for later. You can come back to them. And yeah, that's how it works. And if you have a question, you can post a question. Okay, so if you have a question, just say like, hey, what about this thing, right? And you can, if you are a sales process, sale customer, and you have all access to all these other products, then you can post in whatever thing that you want. But if you're only in the models product, then you'll be in the models here. And you can just tag the node models. Okay. Okay and yeah you can say a question and update an intro suggestion okay and we will get back to you okay. So that is it for this little demonstration and how to use the tool and yeah we appreciate it guys and we will see you in the next video.